Hey, what's up guys? My name is a
channel, and welcome back to my C++
series. Today, we're going to be talking
all about operators in C++ and operator
overloading in C++. So, first of all,
what's an operator? Well, an operator is
basically some kind of symbol that we
use usually instead of a function to
perform something. So, I'm not just
talking about mathematical operators
that we have such as plus, minus,
divide, you know, multiply, all that
kind of stuff. But, we've also got other
operators that we use very commonly, and
we've actually been using quite a few
already. These include things like the
dereference operator, the arrow
operator, plus equals, there's the
ampersand operator that we use for
memory addresses. We've also been using
the bit shift left operator, which is
two left angle brackets for printing out
stuff into our C out into our console.
And then, we've got other operators
which you probably don't think of as
operators at all, such as new and
delete. They're actually they're also
operators. And then, we have entirely
different operators which are weird,
such as the comma operator. Yes, the
comma can also be an operator, as well
as parentheses. Yeah, that's right. Two
like brackets, two parentheses.
That's also an operator. I'm not going
to list off all of the operators we have
available in C++. I will make videos
specific videos about some of them
because they they they need some talking
about. But, if you want to see the full
list of C++ operators that exist, then
I've linked a reference in the in the
description below. So, operator
overloading, what does that mean? Well,
the term overloading in this sense just
means kind of giving a new meaning to or
adding parameters to or creating,
essentially. In the case of operator
overloading, you're allowed to define or
change the behavior of an operator in
your program. This is a very, very
useful feature that isn't supported in
languages such as Java. It is partially
supported in languages such as C#.
Usually, the the good parts of it are
supported, but C++ kind of gives us full
control. And that's kind of
it's kind of a good thing, but it can
also be a bad thing. And that's just the
case with C++. It gives you so much
control that it can lead to so many bad
programs and people hating on the
language. I might actually make a video
just talking about all this because I
know that a lot of people are are
interested in that. But, at the end of
the day, operators are just functions.
They're just functions. Instead of
giving your function a name such as add,
you can give it an operator such as
plus. And in a lot of cases, that really
helps to clean up your code and
streamline it. It'll just it just looks
better and it's easier to read. However,
in other cases, if you're using the
ampersand operator to push a variable
into a data set,
what are you doing? Looking at you,
Boost serialization. Really, at the end
of the day, your use of operator
overloading should be rather minimal and
only in cases where it makes perfect
sense. If people need to go to the
definition of your operator or the
definition of your class or struct or
whatever to see what it actually does,
then
then you've probably failed. For
example, when defining a math class and
you need to add two mathematical objects
together, then overloading the plus
operator makes perfect sense because you
can literally write code like A + B, and
it will work. In fact, let's take a look
at some examples. I'm going to write a
vector two struct. So, basically, what
this is going to be is a vector two.
I've I've decided to make it a struct
because the fields are going to be
public. It's going to have two floats,
an X and a Y. That's all the vector two
is, it's a two-component vector. I'm
going to define a constructor quickly
for this, which just takes in
an X and a Y. And now, inside our main,
we can actually start to create these
things. So, let's just say that I want
to store a position and maybe a speed as
well. Okay, great. So, I've got two
vectors. And now, I would like to add
them together and store the result say
over here. So, I come to the problem of
what do I write? Well, in a language
without operator overloading or if
you're in C++, but you don't want to use
operator overloading, then you would
probably write something like
position.add speed. So, if we go up
here, we'll quickly define the add
function. This is going to return a
brand new vector two. We'll call the
function add. It's going to take in an
existing vector two. We'll pass this by
const reference to avoid copying. We'll
mark the function as const since it's
not going to modify this class. It's
just going to create a new vector two
with the result. And we'll just return
vector two X + other.x and Y + other.y.
Okay, seems pretty simple. We've got
this working here. Looks relatively
okay. But, what if we wanted to modify
our speed by some kind of modifier? We
might have had a power up that changes
our speed to be slightly faster, maybe
10% faster or something like that.
Suddenly, we want to be able to do
something like speed times power up. So,
with this current set, that means that
we have to write code like
speed.multiply power up. Uh we have to
add the multiply function. So, I'm just
going to copy and paste this add
function, change it to say multiply, and
just change the operators here to be the
multiplication operator. Okay, cool.
Now, this is where it starts to look a
little bit hard to read. And
unfortunately, in a language such as
Java,
this really is your only choice. But, in
C++, we have operator overloading, which
means that we can take advantage of
those operators and actually define our
own to deal with the vector two struct.
So, potentially, instead of writing
something like this, we can convert this
to just use the mathematical operator.
So, we'll do something like position
plus speed times power up. And with
operator precedence playing a role here,
this should get evaluated before this.
So, let's pop up here and define two
operators, the multiplication operator,
which is just an asterisk, and this
addition operator, which is the plus
sign. So, the way that we define these
is like any other function. We write the
return result, which is of course is
going to be the exact same. The return
type is going to be the same as it is
for these functions. So, for if we're
writing add over here, let's move this
up here so that we can kind of group
them. Instead of the function name, we
write the word operator followed by the
operator, which is plus.
We then open up our parentheses and type
in the parameter that we want. So,
really, you can see it's exactly the
same. And then, we write const at the
end of this because like any other
function that doesn't modify the class
like this add function, we still we
still want it to be const. And then,
what we can do is just return the same
result. Or in this case, it would be
much simpler to just return add other.
And that's it. We've created the plus
operator. If we come back here and we
just comment out the rest of this code,
you can see that this code is fine. And
if we can we can compile this, then it
will compile, and everything is great.
Now, since these are like any other
function, I could have basically done
the reverse of this. Instead of this
operator calling the add function, I
could make the add function call the
plus operator. And a lot of people
actually don't know about this because
the syntax looks a bit weird, and you
don't see this very often. But, what you
could do is just change this to be
basically that.
And then, over here in add, we could
either return this plus other, which is
kind of the easy case, I guess. We're
converting this. We really need to make
a video on this because the this keyword
is is quite special, and we need to talk
about that. There'll be a there'll be a
card up there if that's already done.
We're dereferencing it because this is
originally a pointer, a const pointer in
this case. We're dereferencing it to
just turn this into a normal vector two,
and then we're just adding it with
other. That's pretty common. People
write code like that a lot. But, what we
can do is just address this operator
plus like a function by just writing
return operator plus and then other.
Again, it looks a bit weird, but totally
going to compile, and it totally works.
Me personally, due to just code style, I
like to return code like this instead.
Okay, cool. So, to complete this, we'll
just add our multiply operator. I'll
copy this operator plus,
paste it over here, and change this to
be operator times or operator multiply.
And we'll change this to say multiply.
Now, if we uncomment this, then you can
see that we have this code here, which
in my opinion looks much, much, much
better than this, and it makes a lot
more sense. Okay, great. So, as I said,
I'm not going to go through every single
operator because that would take all
day, and it's probably not that useful.
I will make future videos on operators
as we use them or as I see fit. However,
I will show you one more operator, and
that's the left shift kind of operator
that we use with std::cout. So, suppose
that now that we've got this vector two,
we want to actually print it to the
console. std::cout, as you probably
would have noticed, has this kind of
shift left operator, which takes in
various types. At the left side, we've
got the cout class, and at the right
side, we've got some kind of data type.
So, we'll type in result two, which is
our vector, and then we'll type in endl
as if we were just able to do this. Now,
we can't do this because there is no
overload for this operator which takes
in an output stream, which is what cout
is, and then an actual vector two. But,
we can add that. So, outside of the
vector two class, cuz this has nothing
to do with vector, we're just adding
this to cout, what we're going to do is
write std::ostream, which stands for
output stream, as a reference. So, this
is the original kind of definition of
this operator that I'm overloading here.
We're going to write operator
left shift. Inside here, we're going to
take in the class because you can see
this is a definition outside of the
class. So, we still need a reference to
the existing stream, which in this case
is going to be cout. And then, I'm going
to pass my const vec2 by reference here.
Over here, I'm going to say stream, and
then shift basically whatever I want to
print. So, in this case, other.x. The
stream already knows how to print a
float, so we don't need to overload the
float or anything like that. And then,
maybe a comma, and then other.y. And
make sure that you of course write
ostream here, and not string like like
me. Okay, so this is what it looks like.
And then, finally, we need to return a
reference to the stream, which is just
this stream. So, we can just hit return
stream. And that's it. You can see that
this code now compiles. And if I run
this code, we'll get 4.55  5.65
printing, which of course is the right
answer. So, there we go. That's a look
at a few of the operators that we can
overload in C++ and how just operators
work in general. Remember, they're just
functions. And remember, just because
you can overload an operator and make
your code look weird, don't because it's
going to make it harder for people to
read. It's probably going to annoy you
yourself, and it's just it's just bad
just bad code style. Don't do it. This
left shift operator that we overloaded
is kind of like the to string function
that you commonly override in languages
such as Java or C#. And so, that's one
of the great things about C++. you can
kind of have operators instead of
functions. Another great example which
C# does support but Java doesn't is the
equals equals operator. In Java you have
to write an equals override for every
class if you want to be able to compare
it. And then later on you have to write
dot equals everywhere. So, if I wanted
to compare result one and result two,
I'd have to write if result one equals
result two or something like that. Or
maybe if it doesn't equal I would write
that and that just looks all messy. So,
instead of that we also have the option
of writing the equals equals operator.
That's the final one that I'll show you
guys for today cuz I I wanted to show
it. We'll write bool because that's the
return result of course going to return
true or false. Operator equals equals
const vector two reference other. Const
because it's just a comparison. We're
not going to be modifying this class.
And we'll just return x equals equals
other.x and y equals equals other.y. So,
we're basically checking to see if those
floats are exactly the same. Scrolling
down here we can change this code to say
something like result equals equals
result two.
You can see that works perfectly fine.
And finally if we wanted a not equals
operator we we could copy this code,
change this to not equals and then just
call basically the opposite of equals.
So, we'll call this equals equals other
but we'll put this in parentheses with
an exclamation mark out the front to
reverse the result of that.
Alternatively with the kind of syntax
that I showed you earlier you could
write something like return operator
equals equals other and then kind of
reverse that result and return that.
That looks weird. Don't do it that way.
If you are doing it this way which you
probably should return this. Or maybe
alternatively just have an equals
function and call that and return the
reverse of that or something like that.
Again, you have these operators but some
people prefer not to use them.
When creating a library I like to add
both. So, I would still have a like like
I did over here I would still have this
add function but I would also have an
operator. So, you've basically got you
you're basically giving anyone using
your API choices as to what they want to
use. Hopefully you guys enjoyed this
video. If you did you can hit that like
button and you can support this series
by heading over to
patreon.com/thecherneau.
I hear that people there are getting
videos early like every day which is
pretty cool. So, if you want to if you
want to jump on this train early earlier
than anyone else and get to see the
videos early as soon as possible. As
soon as I'm done editing them they go up
on Patreon. If you guys want to get on
that train then link in the description
below. You're also ensuring that I have
more time to make these videos which
results in more videos. So, fun for the
whole family. I will see you guys next
time. Goodbye.
[Music]